Added new kb article scheduler-kb-context-menu-on-appointments-and-empty-slots (#2365)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/scheduler-kb-context-menu-on-appointments-and-empty-slots.md

> ---

Reviewer: `-kb-` should not be present in the `.md` file name.

> title: Manage Appointments via Context Menu in the Scheduler

Reviewer: The word "manage" is not used by the customer in their ticket. Consider another word that is more likely to be used by customers in a Google search. For example:

```suggestion
title: Show Context Menu on Scheduler Appointments
```

> description: How to use the context menu to add, edit, delete appointments in specific timeslots in the Scheduler.

Reviewer: Use capital letters for component names. "Specific" is probably not a word that we need to include for SEO purposes.

```suggestion
description: How to use the Context Menu component to add, edit, and delete appointments in Scheduler timeslots.
```

type: how-to

> page_title: How to Add Appointments on Empty Slot in the Scheduler Using the ContextMenu. How to Add ContextMenu on Appointment in the Scheduler.

Reviewer: Too long. The `page_title` is usually a variation of the `title`

```suggestion
page_title: How to Show Context Menu on Scheduler Appointments and Empty Time Slots
```

slug: scheduler-kb-context-menu-on-appointments-and-empty-slots

> tags: scheduler, blazor, contextmenu, appointments, empty slots

Reviewer 2: Consider adding a previous_url field to handle the deleted file and any possible 404s from it.

res_type: kb
ticketid: 1656007
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>
                ContextMenu for Blazor,<br />
                Scheduler for Blazor
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

* How to add a [Context menu]({%slug contextmenu-overview%}) to the appointments to provide shortcuts to custom features?
* How to add a Context menu that can be opened anywhere on the scheduler board, not just on appointments? 

> * Is it possible to get the timeslot information where the Context menu is opened?

Reviewer 2: Does this sentence make sense in the Blazor context, because outside of it, it's hard to understand? It could be a matter of a missing preposition or an erroneous word order. 

Would this make sense instead? "Is it possible to get the timeslot for which the Context menu is opened?"

* How do I add a new appointment at a specific timeslot through the Context menu?

## Solution

To implement a Context menu on appointments and on empty slots in the Scheduler, follow these steps:

> 1. Use the Scheduler templates to [integrate the Context menu]({%slug contextmenu-integration%}) with them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the Scheduler templates to [integrate the Context menu]({%slug contextmenu-integration%}):
```

    * Use the [Appointment Templates]({%slug scheduler-templates-appointment%}) to enable the Context menu to appear on appointments. 
    * Use the [Slot Templates]({%slug scheduler-templates-slot%}) to enable the Context menu to appear on cells without appointments. 
1. Pass the context of the template in the `@oncontextmenu` event.

> 1. Utilize the timeslot or appointment information obtained from the context of the template.

Reviewer: How? Try to make this step more meaningful or actionable.

```suggestion
1. Use the timeslot or appointment information obtained from the context of the template.
```

> 1. Add the desired Context menu and create its items, commands and actions as needed.

Reviewer: Perhaps link the Context Menu documentation?

````CSHTML

> Because of the IsImportant flags set in the appointment models, you cannot delete the "Conference" and "Vet Visit" and the newly created appointments.

Reviewer 2: This information should not be here, but outside of the code block.

> This is reflected in the context menu options for them to showcase sample logic for altering its items.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

> Because of the IsImportant flags set in the appointment models, you cannot delete the "Conference" and "Vet Visit" and the newly created appointments.
> This is reflected in the context menu options for them to showcase sample logic for altering its items.

Reviewer: Use simpler and shorter sentences.

```suggestion
You cannot delete important appointments such as "Conference", "Vet Visit", and the newly created appointments.
The "Delete" item in the Context Menu is disabled for these appointments.
```

<TelerikScheduler @ref="@SchedulerRef"
                  Data="@Appointments"
                  @bind-Date="@StartDate"

>                   Height="600px"
>                   @bind-View="@CurrView">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  @bind-View="@CurrView"
                  Height="600px">
```

    <SchedulerViews>
        <SchedulerDayView StartTime="@DayStart">
            <SlotTemplate>
                @{
                    SchedulerSlotTemplateContext EmptySlot = (SchedulerSlotTemplateContext)context;
                    <div style="display:flex; width: 100%; height:100%"

>                          @oncontextmenu:preventDefault="true"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                         @oncontextmenu:preventDefault
```

                         @oncontextmenu="@( (MouseEventArgs e) => ShowContextMenuFromEmptySlot(e, EmptySlot) )">
                    </div>
                }
            </SlotTemplate>
        </SchedulerDayView>
        <SchedulerWeekView StartTime="@DayStart">
            <SlotTemplate>
                @{

>                     SchedulerSlotTemplateContext EmptySlot = (SchedulerSlotTemplateContext)context;

Reviewer: Local variables are usually lowercase.

>                     <div style="display:flex; width: 100%; height:100%"

Reviewer: Consider a reusable custom CSS class for the inline styles.

    </SchedulerViews>
    <ItemTemplate>
        @{
            SchedulerAppointment Appointment = (SchedulerAppointment)context;
            <div style="height:100%" class="@( Appointment.IsImportant ? "important-appt" : "" )"
                 @oncontextmenu:preventDefault="true"
                 @oncontextmenu="@( (MouseEventArgs e) => ShowItemContextMenu(e, Appointment) )">
                <div style="height:100%" class="k-event-template">@Appointment.Title</div>
            </div>
        }
    </ItemTemplate>
    <AllDayItemTemplate>
        @{
            SchedulerAppointment Appointment = (SchedulerAppointment)context;
            <div style="height:100%" class="@( Appointment.IsImportant ? "important-appt" : "" )"
                 @oncontextmenu:preventDefault="true"
                 @oncontextmenu="@( (MouseEventArgs e) => ShowItemContextMenu(e, Appointment) )">
                <div style="height:100%" class="k-event-template">@Appointment.Title</div>
            </div>
        }
    </AllDayItemTemplate>
</TelerikScheduler>

@* ContextMenu for ItemTemplate and AllDayItemTemplate *@
<TelerikContextMenu @ref="@TheItemContextMenu"
                    Data="@MenuItems"

>                     TextField="Text"

Reviewer: Always use `nameof()` for property names.

                    IconField="Icon"
                    DisabledField="Disabled"
                    OnClick="@( async (ContextMenuItem itm) => await MenuClickItemHandler(itm) )">
</TelerikContextMenu>

@* ContextMenu for SlotTemplate *@
<TelerikContextMenu @ref="@TheSlotContextMenu"

>                     Data="@MenuSlots"

Reviewer: `SlotItems` makes more sense

                    TextField="Text"
                    IconField="Icon"
                    DisabledField="Disabled"
                    OnClick="@( async (ContextMenuItem itm) => await MenuClickSlotHandler(itm) )">
</TelerikContextMenu>

<style>
    .important-appt {
        color: purple;
        font-weight: bold;
        font-size: 1.5em;
    }
</style>

@code {

>     private TelerikScheduler<SchedulerAppointment> SchedulerRef { get; set; }

Reviewer: Try to produce code that doesn't generate warnings. This change will required some more where `SchedulerRef` is used.
```suggestion
    private TelerikScheduler<SchedulerAppointment>? SchedulerRef { get; set; }
```

>     private List<SchedulerAppointment> Appointments { get; set; } = new List<SchedulerAppointment>();

Reviewer: Possible since .NET 6:

```suggestion
    private List<SchedulerAppointment> Appointments { get; set; } = new();
```

    private DateTime StartDate { get; set; } = DateTime.Today;
    private SchedulerView CurrView { get; set; } = SchedulerView.Week;
    private DateTime DayStart { get; set; } = DateTime.Today;

    private SchedulerAppointment LastClickedAppointment { get; set; }

>     private SchedulerSlotTemplateContext LastClickedEmptySlot { get; set; }

Reviewer: Probably should be nullable.

    private TelerikContextMenu<ContextMenuItem> TheItemContextMenu { get; set; }

>     private TelerikContextMenu<ContextMenuItem> TheSlotContextMenu { get; set; }

Reviewer: Consider `...ContextMenuRef`

    private List<ContextMenuItem> MenuItems = new List<ContextMenuItem>()
        {

>             new ContextMenuItem

Reviewer: "Delete" items are usually last in a list of options.

            {
                Text = "Delete",
                CommandName = "delete",

>                 Icon = SvgIcon.X

Reviewer: We usually use...

```suggestion
                Icon = SvgIcon.Trash
```

            },
            new ContextMenuItem
            {
                Text = "Toggle Important",
                CommandName = "toggleimportant",
                Icon = SvgIcon.Pencil
            }
        };
    private List<ContextMenuItem> MenuSlots = new List<ContextMenuItem>()
        {
            new ContextMenuItem
            {
                Text = "Create appointment",
                CommandName = "create",

>                 Icon = SvgIcon.File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                Icon = SvgIcon.Plus
```

            }
        };

>     //handle ContextMenu for Item

Reviewer: Does this comment have an added value? The method name conveys the same meaning.

    private async Task ShowItemContextMenu(MouseEventArgs e, SchedulerAppointment appt)
    {
        LastClickedAppointment = appt;
        PrepareMenuItems(LastClickedAppointment);
        await TheItemContextMenu.ShowAsync(e.ClientX, e.ClientY);
    }

>     private void PrepareMenuItems(SchedulerAppointment appt)

Reviewer: The method name contains plural, but the prepared item is just one. Why not `DisableItem` ?

    {
        MenuItems[0].Disabled = appt.IsImportant;
    }

    private async Task MenuClickItemHandler(ContextMenuItem clickedItem)
    {
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(clickedItem.CommandName) && LastClickedAppointment != null)
        {
            switch (clickedItem.CommandName.ToLowerInvariant())
            {
                case "delete":
                    await DeleteAppt(LastClickedAppointment);
                    break;
                case "toggleimportant":
                    await ToggleAppointmentImportant(LastClickedAppointment);
                    break;
                default:
                    break;
            }
        }
        LastClickedAppointment = null;
    }

>     private async Task DeleteAppt(SchedulerAppointment appt)

Reviewer: Consider `DeleteAppointment`

    {
        if (appt.IsImportant)
        {
            return;
        }
        Appointments.Remove(appt);
        await Task.Delay(100);
        SchedulerRef.Rebind();
    }

    private async Task ToggleAppointmentImportant(SchedulerAppointment appt)
    {
        appt.IsImportant = !appt.IsImportant;
        var index = Appointments.FindIndex(i => i.Id == appt.Id);
        if (index != -1)
        {
            Appointments[index] = appt;
        }

>         await Task.Delay(100);

Reviewer: It's good to insert a comment why is the delay necessary and if the developer may need to increase it.

    {
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(emptySlot.CommandName) && LastClickedEmptySlot != null)
        {
            switch (emptySlot.CommandName.ToLowerInvariant())
            {
                case "create":
                    await CreateAppt(LastClickedEmptySlot);
                    break;
                default:
                    break;
            }
        }
        LastClickedEmptySlot = null;
    }

    private async Task CreateAppt(SchedulerSlotTemplateContext emptySlot)
    {
        var newAppointment = new SchedulerAppointment
            {
                Title = "New appointment",
                IsImportant = false,
                Description = "New appointment created from context menu.",
                Start = emptySlot.Start,
                End = emptySlot.End,
            };
        Appointments.Add(newAppointment);
        await Task.Delay(100);
        SchedulerRef.Rebind();
    }

    //generate data
    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        Appointments = GenerateData();
    }

    private List<SchedulerAppointment> GenerateData()
    {
        var appointments = new List<SchedulerAppointment>()

>     {

Reviewer: Tab seems off.

                End = DateTime.Today.AddDays(3).AddHours(2).AddMinutes(30),
        },
        new SchedulerAppointment
        {
                Title = "New Project Kickoff",
                Description = "Everyone assemble! We will also have clients on the call from a later time zone.",
                Start = DateTime.Today.AddDays(3).AddHours(8).AddMinutes(30),
                End = DateTime.Today.AddDays(3).AddHours(11).AddMinutes(30),
        },
        new SchedulerAppointment
        {
                Title = "Get photos",
                Description = "Get the printed photos from last week's holiday. It's on the way from the vet to work.",
                Start = DateTime.Today.AddHours(2).AddMinutes(15),
                End = DateTime.Today.AddHours(2).AddMinutes(30),
        },
        new SchedulerAppointment
        {
                Title = "Conference",
                IsImportant = true,
                Description = "The big important work conference. Don't forget to practice your presentation.",
                Start = DateTime.Today.AddDays(6),
                End = DateTime.Today.AddDays(11),
                IsAllDay = true,
        }

>         };

Reviewer: Tabs seem off.

        return appointments;
    }

    public class ContextMenuItem
    {
        public string Text { get; set; }
        public string CommandName { get; set; }
        public ISvgIcon Icon { get; set; }
        public bool Disabled { get; set; }
    }

    public class SchedulerAppointment
    {
        public Guid Id { get; set; }
        public string Title { get; set; }
        public string Description { get; set; }
        public DateTime Start { get; set; }
        public DateTime End { get; set; }
        public bool IsAllDay { get; set; }
        public bool IsImportant { get; set; }

        public SchedulerAppointment()
        {
            this.Id = Guid.NewGuid();
        }
    }
}

> ````

Reviewer 2: You need some See Also resources.

> ````

Reviewer: Add a `## See Also` section with relevant Context Menu and Scheduler links, even if they repeat ones from the steps.
